README.md, before:

# Joe's dotfiles

Dotfiles and macOS setup for a streamlined development environment.

## What's Included

- **Shell Configuration** (`.zshrc`, `.extra`) - Zsh configuration with aliases, functions, and environment setup
- **Git Configuration** (`.gitconfig`, `.gitignore`) - Global git settings and ignore patterns
- **Editor Configuration** (`.editorconfig`, `.vimrc`) - Consistent coding styles across editors
- **macOS Preferences** - Sensible defaults for Finder, Dock, Safari, and more
- **Homebrew Packages** - Essential command-line tools

## Installation

### 1. Install Oh My Zsh

```zsh
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

### 2. Install Homebrew

```zsh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

Follow the post-install instructions to add Homebrew to your PATH.

### 3. Install Powerline Fonts (Optional)

For the best terminal experience with special characters:

```zsh
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/powerline/fonts.git --depth=1
cd fonts
./install.sh
cd ..
rm -rf fonts
```

Then set your terminal font to a Powerline font (e.g., "Meslo LG M for Powerline").

### 4. Clone This Repository

```zsh
git clone https://github.com/jlaws/dotfiles.git ~/Workspace/dotfiles
cd ~/Workspace/dotfiles
```

### 5. Run the Setup Script

```zsh
./setup.sh
```

Or skip confirmation prompts:

```zsh
./setup.sh --force
```

## What the Setup Script Does

The setup script performs three main tasks:

### 1. Sync Dotfiles
Copies all dotfiles to your home directory using `rsync`, preserving any local changes not in the repo.

### 2. Install Packages (via Homebrew)
- **GNU utilities**: `coreutils`, `findutils`, `gnu-sed`, `moreutils`
- **Updated tools**: `vim`, `grep`, `openssh`, `wget`
- **Git tools**: `git`, `git-lfs`, `gh`
- **Shell utilities**: `autojump`

### 3. Configure macOS
Sets hundreds of macOS preferences including:
- **UI/UX**: Faster animations, expanded save/print dialogs, disabled auto-correct
- **Input**: Tap to click, fast key repeat, natural scrolling disabled
- **Finder**: Show hidden files, path bar, status bar, list view default
- **Dock**: Auto-hide, no recent apps, fast animations
- **Safari**: Developer tools enabled, privacy settings, no auto-fill
- **Security**: Password required immediately after sleep

## Manual Configuration

Some settings can't be automated and require manual setup:

### System Preferences
- **Security & Privacy** → FileVault (enable disk encryption)
- **Security & Privacy** → Firewall (enable)
- **Keyboard** → Modifier Keys (Caps Lock → Escape, if desired)

### Applications
- **iTerm2**: Set font to a Powerline font
- **iTerm2**: Import keymappings: Preferences → Keys → Key Mappings → Presets → Import → select `iterm2.itermkeymap`
- **Xcode**: Sign in with Apple ID, install additional components

## File Overview

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `.zshrc` | Zsh configuration, loads Oh My Zsh and sources `.extra` |
| `.extra` | Aliases, functions, PATH, and environment variables |
| `.gitconfig` | Git configuration (aliases, colors, defaults) |
| `.gitignore` | Global gitignore patterns |
| `.editorconfig` | Editor settings (indent style, charset, etc.) |
| `.vimrc` | Vim configuration |
| `.hushlogin` | Suppress "Last login" message in terminal |
| `setup.sh` | Main setup script |

## Customization

### Adding Local Overrides

The `.extra` file is sourced by `.zshrc`. You can create a `~/.extra.local` file for machine-specific settings that won't be committed:

```zsh
# Example ~/.extra.local
export WORK_API_KEY="secret"
alias myproject="cd ~/work/myproject"
```

Then add to your `.zshrc`:
```zsh
[ -f ~/.extra.local ] && source ~/.extra.local
```

### Updating

To pull the latest changes and re-sync:

```zsh
cd ~/Workspace/dotfiles
./setup.sh
```

### Claude

#### Plugins

```
/plugin install code-review
/plugin install commit-commands
/plugin install feature-dev
/plugin install pr-review-toolkit
/plugin install swift-lsp
```

#### Context7 MCP (Library Documentation)

Context7 provides up-to-date library/framework documentation. Get a free API key from [context7.com/dashboard](https://context7.com/dashboard).

**Option 1: Local (recommended)**
```bash
claude mcp add context7 -- npx -y @upstash/context7-mcp@latest --api-key YOUR_API_KEY
```

**Option 2: Remote**
```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --header "CONTEXT7_API_KEY: YOUR_API_KEY" context7 https://mcp.context7.com/mcp
```

## Credits

Inspired by [Mathias Bynens' dotfiles](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles).

Commit message:

feat: add Ghostty config, subcommand support, and dock editability
- Add Ghostty terminal config aligned with macOS defaults philosophy
  (zero animations, no unnecessary confirmations, minimal visual noise)
- Support running individual setup steps via subcommands
  (dotfiles, claude, brew, macos, restart, all)
- Split Claude config sync into its own function
- Unlock Dock contents for manual editing
- Add Ghostty install step to README

README.md, after:

# Joe's dotfiles

Dotfiles and macOS setup for a streamlined development environment.

## What's Included

- **Shell Configuration** (`.zshrc`, `.extra`) - Zsh configuration with aliases, functions, and environment setup
- **Git Configuration** (`.gitconfig`, `.gitignore`) - Global git settings and ignore patterns
- **Editor Configuration** (`.editorconfig`, `.vimrc`) - Consistent coding styles across editors
- **macOS Preferences** - Sensible defaults for Finder, Dock, Safari, and more
- **Homebrew Packages** - Essential command-line tools

## Installation

### 1. Install Oh My Zsh

```zsh
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

### 2. Install Homebrew

```zsh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

Follow the post-install instructions to add Homebrew to your PATH.

### 3. Install Ghostty Terminal

Download and install [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/).

### 4. Install Powerline Fonts (Optional)

For the best terminal experience with special characters:

```zsh
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/powerline/fonts.git --depth=1
cd fonts
./install.sh
cd ..
rm -rf fonts
```

Then set your terminal font to a Powerline font (e.g., "Meslo LG M for Powerline").

### 5. Clone This Repository

```zsh
git clone https://github.com/jlaws/dotfiles.git ~/Workspace/dotfiles
cd ~/Workspace/dotfiles
```

### 6. Run the Setup Script

```zsh
./setup.sh
```

Or skip confirmation prompts:

```zsh
./setup.sh --force
```

## What the Setup Script Does

The setup script performs three main tasks:

### 1. Sync Dotfiles
Copies all dotfiles to your home directory using `rsync`, preserving any local changes not in the repo.

### 2. Install Packages (via Homebrew)
- **GNU utilities**: `coreutils`, `findutils`, `gnu-sed`, `moreutils`
- **Updated tools**: `vim`, `grep`, `openssh`, `wget`
- **Git tools**: `git`, `git-lfs`, `gh`
- **Shell utilities**: `autojump`

### 3. Configure macOS
Sets hundreds of macOS preferences including:
- **UI/UX**: Faster animations, expanded save/print dialogs, disabled auto-correct
- **Input**: Tap to click, fast key repeat, natural scrolling disabled
- **Finder**: Show hidden files, path bar, status bar, list view default
- **Dock**: Auto-hide, no recent apps, fast animations
- **Safari**: Developer tools enabled, privacy settings, no auto-fill
- **Security**: Password required immediately after sleep

## Manual Configuration

Some settings can't be automated and require manual setup:

### System Preferences
- **Security & Privacy** → FileVault (enable disk encryption)
- **Security & Privacy** → Firewall (enable)
- **Keyboard** → Modifier Keys (Caps Lock → Escape, if desired)

### Applications
- **iTerm2**: Set font to a Powerline font
- **iTerm2**: Import keymappings: Preferences → Keys → Key Mappings → Presets → Import → select `iterm2.itermkeymap`
- **Xcode**: Sign in with Apple ID, install additional components

## File Overview

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `.zshrc` | Zsh configuration, loads Oh My Zsh and sources `.extra` |
| `.extra` | Aliases, functions, PATH, and environment variables |
| `.gitconfig` | Git configuration (aliases, colors, defaults) |
| `.gitignore` | Global gitignore patterns |
| `.editorconfig` | Editor settings (indent style, charset, etc.) |
| `.vimrc` | Vim configuration |
| `.hushlogin` | Suppress "Last login" message in terminal |
| `setup.sh` | Main setup script |

## Customization

### Adding Local Overrides

The `.extra` file is sourced by `.zshrc`. You can create a `~/.extra.local` file for machine-specific settings that won't be committed:

```zsh
# Example ~/.extra.local
export WORK_API_KEY="secret"
alias myproject="cd ~/work/myproject"
```

Then add to your `.zshrc`:
```zsh
[ -f ~/.extra.local ] && source ~/.extra.local
```

### Updating

To pull the latest changes and re-sync:

```zsh
cd ~/Workspace/dotfiles
./setup.sh
```

### Claude

#### Plugins

```
/plugin install code-review
/plugin install commit-commands
/plugin install feature-dev
/plugin install pr-review-toolkit
/plugin install swift-lsp
```

#### Context7 MCP (Library Documentation)

Context7 provides up-to-date library/framework documentation. Get a free API key from [context7.com/dashboard](https://context7.com/dashboard).

**Option 1: Local (recommended)**
```bash
claude mcp add context7 -- npx -y @upstash/context7-mcp@latest --api-key YOUR_API_KEY
```

**Option 2: Remote**
```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --header "CONTEXT7_API_KEY: YOUR_API_KEY" context7 https://mcp.context7.com/mcp
```

## Credits

Inspired by [Mathias Bynens' dotfiles](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles).
